# Movie-Night-Database-App-CS-340

In this project, we built a backend app for adding, removing, and editing records in a database that supports a frontend app called Movie Night. Movie Night simulates a movie review platform where users browse and add reviews for movies. The app will allow users to filter on genre, director, actor, minimum rating value and rating count, then see the movies that fit these criteria. While the prototype is just sample of movies, a production version would store in a database all movies available at some point (approximately 613k currently [1]) in theatres, on television, available in DVD format, or available for streaming online. This database will not include videos made available only for platforms such as YouTube or those less than 75 minutes in length. 

After this class, we could build a front-end app (phase 2) and eventually a mobile app (phase 3) if desired. Mobile would allow users to quickly open their phone when choosing what to do tonight and possibly make it a Movie Night (a possible slogan). Future phases may also include displaying where the movie can be streamed online.  IMDB has about 83 million users [2]. If this app filled a particular niche in the market, it’s possible this would be the reasonable upper bound of users that would use it. Given Movie Night is a new app, however, achieving 5 million users over the first few years would be a great accomplishment.  Further research would be needed to evaluate how many user reviews might be generated on a database of millions of users. This would be the maximum size of the database needed to accommodate the app. 

The product of this project serves as a database tool that implements full CRUD (Create Read Update Delete) functionality on multiple tables. The entities include movies, actors, genres, directors, and users, with intersection tables to demonstrate the relationships between movies and their actors, movies and their genres, and users and their reviews for a movie. From the homepage, users can pull a page that summarizes all the data for an individual movie, including the related actors, genres, and its ratings. There are separate pages for the movies, actors, directors, and genres for all the movies entered in the database, users, the users that have entered a review into the database, and the intersection tables. All these tables can be accessed via the navigation bar at the top of the website. The app communicates with a database that stores the data. For this class, the database was hosted on a server at Oregon State University (flip3). After the class ends, the database will likely be hosted in MongoDB.
